[Music]
[Applause]
hello everyone welcome to react calm I'm
really excited to be here I'm really
excited for the stuff that we have to
announce for you this week my name is
Sophie Alpert I Sophie bits on the
Internet
I manage the react core team at Facebook
by any manager that you use react is
doing great
our NPM downloads are up 70%
year-over-year the chrome dev tools
extension for react dev tools has been
installed by one and a quarter million
developers and I can show you this list
of companies that's using react although
at this point it's so long it's kind of
hard to tell how much it changes each
year for another point of data we can
look at Google Trends which shows web
search traffic so it searches for react
continue to go up hopefully that means
more people are using react not that
it's getting more confusing but for a
point of comparison we can look at a
trade query which we have just passed
for the first time in history
but this also shows that we have a lot
more room to grow I was procrastinating
when I was writing this talk so I was
curious to see what else react is more
popular than whoops
spoiled my joke but react is more
popular I found out than renewable
energy it's also more popular than
orange juice just think about how common
orange juice is right and not only that
it's more popular than renewable energy
and orange juice put together so I think
we have a lot to be proud of but but
enough about these numbers what I really
like to talk about today is our mission
would react
ever since react was released in 2013
our overarching goal
our primary mission has been to make it
easier to build great UIs and so when
we're adding new features we always try
to be very deliberate we want to
consider a bunch of things when deciding
whether to add a new API if it makes it
possible to do something you couldn't do
before if it can dramatically simplify
the code around react in your components
and libraries so that you all have less
work to do and users have less code to
download that's a win
or if it helps encourage best practices
like code splitting if we make it easier
to code split your app into multiple
bundles then our hope is that your apps
will end up being faster so that's why
we add things like react dot lazy which
we announced two days ago you might have
seen it but thinking about this mission
make it easier to great to build great
UIs
there are a lot of different ways that
we approach this one way we do this is
trying to simplify things that are hard
if you saw Dayton Dan Abramov stalk from
JS conf Iceland then you saw a sneak
peek at suspense which is our idea about
how to dramatically simplify what's
required to do data fetching code
splitting and any kind of async data
dependencies in your app now another way
we try to improve react is by focusing
on performance if your app runs faster
your users are going to enjoy using it
more conversely if your
is laggy if your app is janky then there
your users aren't gonna have a great
time so we try to spend time on making
react itself faster because if react is
faster out of the box you all need to
spend less time optimizing your own code
one recent performance related effort
that Dan also talked about in Iceland as
what we call time slicing this is going
to let you make sure that the most
important renders in your app are
processed first in order to unblock the
main thread and make your apps faster
and a third angle that we approach our
mission from is developer tooling to
help you debug and understand your app
from the start react has included
developer friendly warnings to help
point out problems before you might
otherwise notice them and we've had the
reactive tools extension which lets you
inspect and debug your component trees
and in react 16-5 we introduced a new
profiler it's a second I don't know
what's up with this clicker a second tab
their profiler tab that helps you
understand what's happening in your app
and optimize it so suspense time slicing
and the profiler are three of the new
features that we've been working on over
the last year we're really excited to
tell you more about them but that's
actually not what I'm here to talk about
you're gonna have to wait till Andrew
and Brian's talk tomorrow morning to
hear about that today I want to take a
step back and focus on something else
what I like to ask is what in react
still sucks and I have three problems
that I would like to talk through the
first one is reusing logic between
multiple components in react our main
building block for our applications is a
component and components form the
foundation of the two main patterns for
sharing code in react apps between
components which are higher-order
components and render props both of
these patterns are great for some cases
but they also come with a significant
downside you need to restructure your
app anytime you want to pull one of
these in and more complicated examples
this leads to what I call wrapper hell
most of us have seen component trees
that look something like this
and the the nesting you end up with
makes it difficult to follow the data
flow through the app it would be really
nice if there was some way to reuse this
sort of stateful logic without needing
to change the component hierarchy right
the second problem I would like to talk
about is a giant components whose logic
is just sort of a tangled mess when you
look at a thousand line react component
chances are the logic is going to be
split across a lot of different
lifecycle methods in a way that's pretty
difficult to follow let's look at an
example let's say we have a class
component and in its component did mount
method it does a few different things it
subscribes to a datastore it sends off a
network request and it starts a timer
well if we look at the component we'll
unmount method then we're going to see
basically the exact three opposite
things it needs to unsubscribe from the
store it needs to cancel that Network
request and it needs to stop the timers
and when it comes to implementing
component did update the logic tends to
get even trickier because you need to
compare the old and new props and and
and also mirror it again the same tasks
that you have in your other lifecycle
methods in this example each call here
is just one line so this is actually a
lot simpler than what you normally see
in your components in real-world
components you often end up with an even
more tangled mess because each each
individual task has to be split across
different life cycle methods that makes
it hard to tell if for instance you
forget to clean up one of the resources
when you're unmounting your component
it's pretty hard to see that from the
code and the third thing that sucks is
the class understanding classes in
JavaScript can be pretty tricky and
today we require you to use class
components in order to access state and
life cycles if you've ever taken a
function component and converted it to a
class to add some state you know that
there's a fair amount of boilerplate
that's required in order to just define
a class component most beginners and
many experienced devs also tell us that
the way binding and this work in classes
is pretty confusing it's annoying to
have to think about and we also
frequently hear that people don't
exactly
know when to use function components
partly because there's always this fear
that you're gonna have to convert it to
a class later anyway and so you're like
should I should I do it now I don't know
and so I claim classes are hard for
humans but it's not just humans I claim
the classes are also hard for machines
if you ever looked at a minute ID
component file you'll see that all the
method names are still unmanned that if
you have a method that's completely
unused it doesn't get stripped out
that's because it's hard to tell at
compile time
exactly how all the methods fit together
we also found that classes make it
difficult for us to implement hot
reloading reliably and finally when we
were prototyping an optimizing compiler
to improve the performance of react
components we found that classes can
encourage some patterns that make it a
lot harder for compilers to optimize so
here are the three problems that we have
reusing logic giant components and and
classes so reusing logic because you
often end up with this wrapper hell
giant components because you have the
logic split across different life cycles
and classes which are difficult for both
humans and machines so we think we have
a solution that can help with all three
of these we're really excited to share
it with you to tell you more about it I
want to welcome up Dan Abramov
[Applause]
hi my name is Dan I work on the react
team and this is my first time in three
account
[Applause]
and so so if we talked about these
problems that I think most of you have
encountered in react development and of
course we could approach these problems
one by one so we could try to solve them
in isolation but it seems like solving
one of them makes some other one worse
so for example if we try to solve the
rapper hell by putting more logic into
components themselves then our
components become larger and harder to
refactor and then on the other hand if
we try to split the components apart
into smaller pieces and reuse those then
we end up with more nests than in the
component tree and we get the rapper
hooligan and finally in either case we
have all the confusion that comes with
the classes so we think that this is
because these are not three separate
problems we think that this is these are
three symptoms of one problem and the
problem is that react does not provide a
simpler smaller lightweight primitive to
add state or lifecycle than a class
component and so once you add a class
component you can split it up further
without introducing the rapper he'll and
in fact it's not a new problem so if you
used to react for like more than a
couple of years you might remember them
when react came out it actually included
a solution to this problem
it was mix sense so mix-ins allows you
to reuse some methods between classes
and this way you wouldn't have all these
rappers so should we add mix sense back
to react
that's right no no we're not gonna do
that I mean the codes user make sense
the rounds it's not like it's not broken
but we don't encourage using mix-ins and
react and if you curious why there is a
blog post that we wrote code called
mix-ins considered harmful on the react
log where we explain that we think in
our experience the problems that mix-ins
create are worse than the problems that
they solve so that's why we don't
encourage these mix-ins so perhaps we
could just can't solve this problem
maybe it's inherent to the react
component model maybe we should just
accept it or maybe in there is a perhaps
there is a different way we could write
our components that doesn't suffer from
either of these problems and that's what
I'm going to talk about today
but before I start I want to touch a
little bit on the way we approach making
changes and additions to react which is
a year ago we set up an RFC process so
RFC stands for request for comments and
it means that whenever we want to make
or somebody else wants to make a
substantial change or addition to react
they need to write up a proposal with
detailing the motivation and the
detailed design of how this will work
and so that's what we're going to do
we're excited to announce that we are
ready to present a proposal for how we
can solve these three problems and
importantly this proposal does not have
breaking changes or deprecations in it
it is strictly additive it is opt-in and
it adds some new api's which happens
when you try to solve problems and we
would love to hear your feedback on this
proposal
which is why we're we're going to
publish it today
and we thought about many ways we could
share this proposal so maybe we just
like right off in there
write up an RFC and post it but since we
were going to run react Kampf anyway we
just decided to to show it here and
we're gonna do a demo with the mirrors
the displays sorry technical glitch
can somebody who understands projectors
help me
can I make it mirror my desktop please
yeah
okay but it doesn't show on the screen I
don't see anything
that's that's the problem that I had
okay disaster averted
alright um let me check the font size a
little bit
deceitful alright so here is a simple
react component that just it is a row
this is just some styling and it it
renders a person's name and so let's say
that we want this name to be editable so
how do you do it in react normally well
like if we want to add an input there we
need to return this component into a
class add some local state to it and let
that state drive the input so that's
exactly what I'm going to do that's what
we do today so I'm going to do the
expert default class greeting extends
react component and so I'm going to use
only stable JavaScript syntax so
constructor props super props there is
the state going to initialize name to
Mary here and I'm going to declare a
render method and copy and paste this
sorry
okay and so I want this to be instead of
just rendering the name I want the
surrender and input so I'm replacing
this by an input and the value of the
input is this that state that name and
if I make a change I want to call this
dot handle named change that's going to
be my change color and I'm going to
declare it here when the name changes we
call says state like we normally do and
we set the name to eat at target dot
value right so now if I edit the okay so
I I need to bind sorry I need to find
the events on there okay so now I can
actually edit it and it works so a
familiar class component is if you work
with react you probably write a lot of
those but let's take a step back what if
we didn't have to write a class when we
wanted to use state so I'm not sure how
that's gonna work but I'll just start
with what I know I want to render an
input so I'm gonna put an input here and
the input has a valley and that Valley
is the current name so I'll just pass
name I don't know where to get name from
so it doesn't come from props
I'll just declare it and I don't know
I'll fill it in later this is gonna have
a change down there as well
so I'm going to declare unchanged handle
name change and I'm adding a function
here takes an event and then here I want
to tell react to set the name to
something but again I'm not sure how to
do that from a functional component so
I'll just call something called set name
with the current input value
and I'll just upload it here
all right so these two things they're
closely related right so one of them is
the current value of the name state
variable and the other is a function
that lets us set the name state variable
and so because these things are closely
related I'm actually going to put them
together as a pair of valleys so I'm
going to get them together from
somewhere so where do I get them from
from react local state so how do I use
react local state from a function
component well what if I could just use
state
and past the initial state to specify it
and see if this works yeah it works
[Applause]
so let's let's compare the two
approaches so on the Left we have a
familiar class component this state has
to be an object we bind some event
handlers so that we can access this
inside the event handler for this that's
a state when we call says state it
actually doesn't just set the state that
merges the state are the argument into
the state object and then when we want
to access the state which it is that
state and that's something so in the
example on the right we don't need to
access this that stayed at something
because the name state variable is
already available in the function it's
just the variable and similarly when we
need to set the state we don't need to
access this that's something because the
function that lets has said the name is
also available in the scope so what is
use state exactly your state is a hook a
hook is a function provided by react
that lets you hook into react features
from your function components and you
stayed is the first hook that we're
going to take a look at today but there
are a few more so we're going to see
them later
all right so let's go back to our
Familia a class example so let's say we
wanted to add a second field for example
for a surname so the way we normally do
this is we add another key to the state
and we I'm going to copy and paste this
role it's gonna say surname now it's
going to render surname and handle
surname change when I copy and paste
this event handler this will be surname
and I need to bind it
okay MARY POPPINS so we can see that it
works so how do we do the same with
hooks so one thing we could do is we
could make our state an object as you
can see that the state with hook state
doesn't have to be an object it can be
any primitive we could make it an object
if we wanted to but we also don't have
to so conceptually surname is is not
closely related to state to the name so
what we could do is we could declare a
second state variable by calling the you
state crook again
so all declare surname I can give it any
name it's just the variable in my code
and sets her name by calling you state
and passing the initial state for that
state variable poppins
so again government gonna copy and paste
the row say in surname the valet surname
handle surname change and when the user
edits the surname not sir
name we want to set the surname
let's see if this works
yay it looks like it works
so we can see that we can use hooks more
than once in a component let's compare
the two approaches in more detail so on
the Left familiar class component state
is always an object has multiple fields
McCall says state will merge some
something into that object and then when
we want to access it we do this that
state there's something on the right in
the example using hooks we use the state
hook twice and that declares two state
variables name and surname and whenever
we call set name or set surname
this tells react that it needs to
re-render this component just like if we
called says state and so the next time
reactor renders our components is going
to pass the current name and the current
surname to our component and then we can
use it directly without accessing this
that state that's something
all right so let's go back to our class
example what else what are other
features of reactor we know so another
thing you might want to do from a
component is to read context so context
in case you're not familiar it's like
kind of like global variables for a
subtree so it's useful for things like
read the current theme like visual theme
or the current language that the user is
using and it's useful to avoid passing
everything through props if you need all
components to be able to read some value
so we're going to import theme context
and local context which I already
declared in another file and the API
you've probably most familiar with for
consuming context especially if you have
to consume multiple contexts is the
render prop API and it looks like this
so I'm going to scroll down here so we
can choose theme context consumer that
gives us a theme in my case it's just
going to be a CSS class so I copy this
all this code inside the render prop and
I'm going to use class name equals theme
all right very old-timey
and I also want to show the current
language so I'm going to use local
context consumer and it's going to
render another role so I will copy and
paste this role can I say language
language and render it here okay we can
see that context works and that's
probably normally consume context we
actually added a more convenient API for
accessing it in classes in 1606
but this is how you can see multiple
contexts so let's look at the at how we
could do this with hooks so as we said
that state is a fundamental feature of
react and this is why you can use state
and so if we want to use context I need
to import my contexts so this is gonna
be a themed context local context and
now if I want to use context from my
component I can use context and then to
get the current theme I can use context
same context and to get the current
locale I can use context local context
and this doesn't just read the context
it also subscribes the component to
updates to this context but it just
gives me the current values so I can I
can put it into my CSS class name and I
can add the bro first language and I can
put it here
all right so let's let's compare the two
approaches so this is the traditional
kind of render prop a bi
it is very explicit about what it's
doing but it does get a little bit
nested and you encounter this not just
with context with with any kind of
render property P I so with hooks it
does the same thing but it's flat so we
just say we use this context in this
context and we get the theme and locale
and then we can use them so you might be
wondering at this point how can react
possibly know for example I have this to
you state calls so how does it know
which state variable corresponds to
which you state call and the answer is
that react relies on the order of these
calls this may be a little bit unusual
and in order for this to work correctly
there is a rule that you need to follow
when you use cooks and the rule is that
you cannot call hook inside a condition
it has to be at the top level of your
component so if I do something like if
props condition and then I call the you
state hook here we actually have a
linter plugin that is going to complain
that this is not the correct way to use
hooks and we realize that this is an
unusual limitation but it is pretty
important for hooks tour correctly and
also to enable certain things that I
think well you will like that I will
show a bit later all right so let's go
back to our class
so the other thing you might want to
reach for the class for is lifecycle
methods so the most commonly use case
for lifecycle methods is you want to
perform some side effect such as firing
off request performing some kind of
imperative Dom mutation interfacing with
the browser api's so you might want to
do something like this and you can't do
during rendering because it's it's not
rendered yet so the way you do
side-effects and react is you declare a
life cycle method like component in
mount and then let's say that if let me
show this so you see at the top of the
screen it says react up so there is
actually a browser API that lets us
update this so let's say we want the tab
title to be the name of the person and
change it as I type and so to set it
initially I'm going there is a browser
API to do this is documented title
equals this that stayed that name was
space was this the state that's her name
so now we can see it's as Mary Poppins
but then if I if I edit it it doesn't
get automatically updated because I also
need to implement component it update
for the for the side effects to be
consistent with what I rendered so I'm
going to declare a component it update
and just copy and paste this all right
so now says Mary Poppins but if I
started editing it the document title
updates and this is how we perform side
effects in a class
so how do we do this with hooks well the
ability to perform side effects is
another core feature of react components
so if we want to use an effect from our
component make an import use effect from
reactant and then we want to tell react
what to do after react has flushed our
components to the Dom so we pass a
function which is where we perform our
effect so I'm going to say document the
title equals name plus space plus
surname you can see it says Mary Poppins
here and if I start editing it actually
updates
so what default use effect runs both
after the initial render and after every
update so by default it is consistent
with what he rendered and you can opt
out of this behavior if like for
performance reasons and/or if you have
special logic and reinstall after me
will touch a little bit on this so let's
compare DG approaches so in the in the
class we divide method we divide the
logic based on lifecycle method names so
this is why we have component adnan
component it update they fire at
different times and we sometimes repeat
some logic between them we could extract
it to a function but still we would have
to call it in two places and remember to
keep it consistent and with with the
effect hook the effects are consistent
by default although there is a way to
opt out of that and not is that in the
class we need to access this that state
so there needs to be special API to do
this but in the effect example we
actually don't need a special API to
access the state variable because it's
already in this code
of the function it is declared right
above and this is why the effect is
declared inside the component rather
than they rather than outside because
this gives us access to state variables
ability to set them and anything else
like the current context value for
example or any of these contexts all
right so let's go back to the familiar
class example another thing you might
want to use life cycle methods for in a
class is subscriptions so maybe you want
to subscribe to some kind of browser API
and it gives you some value for example
the window size and you want to update
the state in response to changes to this
value and so the way we could do this in
a class let's say that we want to that
we want to monitor the window width so
I'm going to put with interstate this
window in there with browser API and I
want to render it let me copy and paste
this so this is gonna say width and I'm
going to render it here it is that state
that width this is the width of the
window not with of Mary Poppins
and I'm going to add a I'm going to add
in event listener so we need to actually
listen to changes in the width so at
window dot event
add event listener I'll I'm going to
listen to the resize event and the
resize and I need to declare this event
and so this is where we're going to
update the width state to be window that
inner width and we need to bind it and
and I also need to unsubscribe so I
don't want a memory leak with like
keeping these subscriptions I want to
unsubscribe from this event so the way
we do this in a class is we create
another life cycle method called
component will unmount and I'm going to
copy and paste this logic here except
this will be a remove event listener so
we set up an event listener and we
remove the event listener and we can
verify that this actually works by
dragging this you see the width is
changing so it works so let's see how
could how we could do this with hoax
so conceptually listening to the window
width has nothing to do with setting the
document title so that's why we're not
gonna put it in that effect it's
conceptually completely separate effect
and just like we could use state more
than once to declare multiple state
variables we can use effect more than
once to perform different side effects
so I want to subscribe to window add
event listener resize handle resize and
I'm gonna need to keep some state for
the current width so I'm actually going
to declare another state variable so
I'll say with and sat with we get them
by using state with window inner width
as the initial value and now in my
handle resize function
I'll just declare it here because it
isn't used anywhere else and it's going
to set with tree to the current width I
need to render it so I'll copy and paste
this row gonna say with
and finally I need to clean up after
this effect so I need to specify how to
clean up and again conceptually cleaning
up is part of this effect so this effect
has a cleaner place and the order you
the way you can specify it is that any
effect can optionally return a function
and if it does return the function then
react will call this function to clean
up after the effect so this is where we
unsubscribe ok let's just verify that
this actually works yay
so let's compare the two approaches on
the Left we have a familiar class
component nothing surprising there we we
have some side effects some related
logic is split apart so we can see that
document title is being set here but
it's also being set here and then we
subscribe to an effect here
sorry subscribe to the event here but we
unsubscribe here so these things need to
be in sync with each other and then this
method contains two unrelated method two
unrelated lines so that me in the in
feature make it a bit difficult to test
them in isolation but it looks very
familiar so that's this nice so this
code probably looks less familiar but
let's take another look at what's going
on here in with hooks we separate code
not based on the life cycle method name
but based on what the code is doing so
we can see that there is one effect
which is we updated document title
that's one thing this component can do
and then there is another effect which
is subscribing tree to the window resize
event and update in the state when it
changes and this effect has a cleanup
phase which means that when it's time to
remove this effect react removes it and
avoids the memory leaks and if you've
been carefully watching you might notice
that since effect run after every render
we're just gonna keep resub scribing so
there is a way to optimize this so
default is to be consistent which is
important if you for example use some
prop here I need to resupply from props
or something similar but there is a way
to optimize it and opt out of this
behavior and Ryan in the next talk will
mention how to do it
all right so there is one more thing
that I want to show here so this
component is getting pretty large and
it's fine so we expect that since you
now can do more in function components
they will get larger and that's totally
okay but you might want to reuse some of
that logic in other components or
extract it or test it separately what's
interesting though is that hook calls
they are just function calls and
components they are just functions so
how do you share a logic between two
functions you extract it to a different
function that's what I'm going to do
you're going to copy and paste this and
I'm going to create a new function
called use window with I'll just paste
it here and so we need the width in our
component in order to render it so I
need to return it from this function
which is the current width and then I
can go back off and I can say Const with
equals use window with
so what is this function we didn't do
anything special we just extracted the
function but there is a convention here
so we are calling this function a custom
hook and by convention custom hook names
always start with use and so there are
two reasons for this we're now giving
two like read your function name or to
string it or anything like this
but it is an important convention
because first of all this lets us lint
automatically for violation of the first
rule that I described about : hooks
unconditionally so if we didn't know if
something is a hook then we wouldn't be
able to do that and another reason is
that if you just look at the component
code you kind of want to know if some
function can have some state inside of
it so it's important that there is a
convention and see okay use something it
means that it's potentially stateful and
here with gives us the current bits and
subscribes us to updates to it so if we
wanted to we could even go further it's
probably not necessary in this example
but I just want to give you like a sense
of water you could do so let's say like
maybe setting the document title was a
bit more complicated and you wanted to
like extract it or test it separately so
I could just copy and paste this and I
could write a new custom hook I'm gonna
call this one use document title and so
the name and surname don't really make
sense in the Scopes context we just want
to call this title and this is going to
be an argument so custom hooks are
JavaScript functions so they can take
arguments and return values or not
return so it is going to take title as
an argument and now in my component I
can say use document title name plus
surname
in fact I could go even further so in
this case is totally unnecessary but
again maybe our inputs were more
complicated maybe we were tracking
whether the input was focused on blurt
whether it has been validated submitted
and so on so maybe we had some more
logic there we wanted to pull it out of
our components and reduce duplication
and there is already some duplication so
we have this like almost identical event
handlers so what if we could just I'm
going to delete one of them and extract
the other one I'm going to create a new
hook that I'm going to call use form
input so this is my change handler now
I'll also copy and paste this
declaration so this defines the state
for this input so it's no longer name
and set name I'll just color generically
value and set value it's going to take
the initial value as an argument and
this is just going to be a handle change
and this will set value so what do we
want to get in order to use this user
name put in our component we want to get
the current value and a change handler
these are the things that we attach to
the input so let's just return them
return value and unchanged handle change
so now if we go back up we can say name
equals use form input Mary so name is
going to be an object with valley and
non change fields and surname is use
form input Poppins so this is now going
to be named at Valley and surnamed at
Valley because this is where the string
is and so now I can remove this and I
can spread over the name object
someone is laughing alright let's just
verify it and break it yeah it works so
each time we call a hook it's state is
completely isolated and this is because
we just rely on the order of who calls
and not on names or anything so you can
call the same group multiple times each
call will get its own local state so
let's compare the three approaches for
the last time so on the Left we have a
familiar class component it has some
some state in an object bind some
methods has some logic spread across
different lifecycle methods has a bunch
of event handlers uses uses some things
from the context and render stuff pretty
familiar and on the right pane this may
not look like the react components were
used to but it kind of makes sense even
if you don't know how these functions
are implemented you can see okay it uses
three form inputs uses some context to
get theme and locale it uses the window
width and document title and it renders
a bunch of stuff and if we want to we
can scroll further and we can see okay
so this is how the input works this is
how it said in the document tile works
this is how the window width suppression
works oh maybe this could be an NPM
package and you don't actually need to
know that all we could pull it back into
a component or copy and paste between
components so hooks give you custom
hooks give you the flexibility to create
your own abstractions that are not they
do not inflate your react component tree
and avoid the wrapper hell
[Applause]
and importantly these are not two
separate applications so this is
actually one application so I have this
window open just to demonstrate that
classes can work side by side with hooks
and while hooks represent our vision for
the future of react we don't want to
make breaking changes like this so we
need to keep classes working let's go
back to the slides
all right now this is a slider you can
actually tweet
we present the Hookes proposal to you
today
Hookes led to use all react features
without having to write a class they do
not deprecated classes but you have the
option to not have to write them we
intend to cover all use cases for
classes with hooks as soon as possible
there are a few that are missing but
we're working on them and hooks lets you
reuse stateful logic extracted out of
components tested separately reuse it
between different components without
introducing the wrapper hell and again
importantly it's not a breaking change
completely backwards compatible strictly
addition additive and you can find the
we wrote the documentation for hooks so
you can find it at this URL
and we want to hear from you the react
coming in to you when I hear what you
think about hooks whether you like them
or not and we realize that it's pretty
hard to give feedback without actually
trying them so we built them and we
released sixty sixty and seven alpha
it's not a major release it's a minor
release but in alpha where you can try
hooks and we've been trying them in
production at Facebook for about a month
so we don't expect major bugs there but
the api's themselves may change together
with your feedback and I asked you not
to rewrite anything like not to rewrite
their whole apps and hooks because first
of all it's it's a proposal and second
because personally I I find that it
takes a bit of a mind shift to start
thinking in hooks and it might be a bit
confusing if you try to just take a
class component and convert it but I do
encourage you to try using hooks and
some of the newer code that you write in
and but it's not what you think so
thank you
[Applause]
so in our view hooks represent our
vision for the future of reacting but I
think they also represent the way we
move react forward and that is we don't
do big rewrite we want the new patterns
that we like better to coexist with the
old patterns so that we can have gradual
migration and adoption just like you can
gradually adopt react itself and this is
almost the end of my talk I want to end
it on a personal note so I started
learning react about four years ago and
one of my first questions was why JSX
but my second one of the next questions
was I can figure out what does the logo
have to do with react so the project is
not called Adam it's not a physics
engine
so one interpretation is that it's kind
of upon on
reactions so atoms participate in
chemical reactions reactions react but
it's not a flame with react actually
Gotti I found a different interpretation
that made more sense to me and the way I
think about it we know that physical
matter consists of atoms and we've
learned that it's the types of these
atoms and their properties that
determine how the physical matter looks
and behaves and react has taught me
something similar that you can take a
user interface and you can split it into
these independent units called
components and it's the types and
properties of these components that can
describe how the user interface looks
and behaves
what's ironic though is that the word
atom
it literally means indivisible so when
scientists just discovered atom for the
first time they thought this is the
smallest thing we're gonna find but
later they discovered an electron which
is a smaller particle inside the atom
and it turned out that actually
electrons explain a lot about how atoms
work and I kind of feel the same way
about hooks I don't feel like hooks are
a new feature rather I feel that hooks
provide me with access to react features
that I already know such as state and
context and life cycle and I feel like
hooks are a more direct representation
of react and that they really explain
how a component works inside and I feel
like they've been hiding in plain sight
for four years and in fact if you look
at the react logo you can see those
electron orbits there so maybe hooks
have been there all along thank you
[Applause]